---
title: Hawaii 游记
date: 2022-05-01 14:24:03
tags: [游记,享受生活,hiking]
categories: 生活
---
<!---
Topic: describe a trip, with focus on the japanese garden and its reflected widsom. 
-->

Today marks the last day of my Hawaii trip, which lasts for nine days and involves two islands, the Big Island and the Oahu Island. 

The trip is long and short. It is long as it contains a large amount of hikings and exhausting projects, the snokling, the long hikes, the long drivings. It is short because I wish I can live more like this for a longer period of time. 

It is a strange trip, where at the very beginning I can not help thinking about work, about the oncalls, all the designs, and tech details. I also can not help thinking about the Google vs Uber decision. Even after I arrive the Oahu island, the thought is still going, until I visit the Japanese tampel. 

The Japanese tampel is a small one hidden in the middle of the mountain on the Oahu island. The route to the tempel is full of 墓. The temple sits in front of the mountain with fog arond it, and it is facing a pond of water. On the left side of the tempel when you walk towards it is a bell, called the Sacred Bell. The bell changes everything. 

Without noticing the bell, you can hear its 断断续续的 sounds. It is so familar as you hear it before in movies and videos about Budda or Buddisim, like Shaolin tempel. You are also allowed to ring the bell, which is another fun activity. I rarely remember I did it before. When you ring the bell, it makes the same sound. And if you read the notice besides the bell, it says that the bell can remind you that everything is transitory.

Everything is indeed transitory, or known as 无常. It is a fact that I've already known, but need to be constantly reminded of. 那一刻，我仿佛放下了，也不焦虑了。很奇妙的感觉。

If you keep going around in the temple, you can find a chair made of stone. It has some sentences on it saying that you might not own the most, but you can make it the most, something like that. It seems an answer of my question regardign the Google vs Uber decision. If I can make the most out of my decision, then that is a wise decision. 

During that time I decided to take advantage of the possible time and freedom I can have at Google to do more exerice and learn more fundamental knowledge about leadership, soft skills, system design, math, and probability theory. It may be too many to get out of it, but there is an order. And I have a plan. 

Stepping out of the temple, I feel myself more happier. 