---
title: Golden Gate Park
date: 2023-03-05 22:36:30
tags: [travel, hiking]
categories: travel
---
<!-- see, hear, smell, taste, touch -->

If I did not see the sea, I almost forgot I live so close to the beach. These days I might focus too much on work, or on any learning I can do. I rarely planned to hike and to connect with nature. Today I am taken in a trip to Golden Gate Park. I feel connected with nature again.

We spent most of the time walking along the trail surrounding the Golden Gate park. We walked by ponds. The water is green, with many gooses, ducks, and unknown name birds swimming in it. I stopped by a pond and sit on the a rock to bath in the sun, so does turtles on some floating woods in the pond. The sunlight is warm in the early spring. We walked by an open athletic field, with wind across my tips and skin. The air if full of grass smell. We walked by the windmill, with beautiful purple tulip around it. We arrived at a beach.

I did not realize the Golden Gate park is just beside the sea. I feel lucky I made the decision to cross the road and visit the beach. It was in ebb tide and some water is still left on the beach. You can even see your reflection on the wet beach [(picture)](https://www.instagram.com/p/CpcEdMuugFjR1FzrOOPg-w3XJS7Nj5g3MuR8PM0/). There was a dog standing there far away from its owner and watching the waves. The owner thrown it a ball but the dog just gave the ball a glance without chasing it. It turned its head and stare at the wet beach, and then at the waves for a long time. I was thinking, what is the difference, during that moment, between me and the dog, the two creatures on the planet? I did not find any. Maybe he can live for ten or twenty years and I can live for seventy or eighty years, but did we leave a distinguished life? I spent most of my life learning and working. I probably spent less time than him on the beach, on connecting with nature. What's worse, I almost forget about visiting the beautiful park and the relaxing beach. 

From now on, I will spend time each week to hike. I will record the feeling with words and pictures. I will live my life well.