---
title: How to handle unresponsive partner
date: 2026-01-29 16:32:25
tags: [career growth, business]
categories: business
---

# Context

I want to record this textbook case.

Our partner team is not responsive as they are busy. They don't have time to response to our request to collaborate, but we need to get things done. I will use XX to represent the tech.

They are the general XX team, while we are the vertical team that want to introduce XX into our product. We have to build XX as it is the highest priority.

What can we do? My manager asked me to start the work without their help but try the best to come up with a solid design. Then we share the design out, if they don't response, we will implement the way we designed without them. 

They have to response, and marked us ask a significant collaborator.

Now, they propose a different opinion trying to block us. What they said makes sense still, and we also have the design option just don't have the resource to implement.

However, this option requires a horizontal support from them but they didn't build the horizontal infra yet. Our priority is not on the top, what to do?

They don't response so we include Director into the discussion ("If you include director, they will response" -- from my TL). But just limited to several messages.

We have to meet them, but again they refuse to meet.
"Can we schedule meeting?" "A meeting will be really helpful to clarify"

Now comes another trick, we just schedule a meeting, and mark our director as optional. And they joined, and we discussed our reasons.

How the project develops? Let's see.

